[singing voice] Aniplex.
[both grunting]
[gasping]
‐ [grunts]
‐ [gasps]
[blades sparking]
[grunts]
[Shirou gasps]
[both grunting]
[groans]
[grunts]
[gasps]
[breathing heavily]
He's running out of mana.
[Archer] Don't get
your hopes up.
I have the lifespan
of the Archer class,
but even if it reaches
its limit,
this boy is still no match
for me in combat.
Not by a long shot.
Shirou Emiya,
you are going to die here
no matter what.
Now Rin,
in a moment I'm going
to relieve you of your heart.
[grunts]
[Shinji] Hey, hold on just
a second here!
That wasn't the deal!
You told me I could
have Tohsaka, remember?
[grunts]
You can't!
She's mine!
It's final!
[shudders]
Do you have any last words
before we settle
the business at hand?
[Kirei] A final request,
perhaps?
[Rin scoffs]
Don't act like you don't know
what I'm thinking right now.
You know me too well for that.
[footsteps approaching]
[Kirei] Very true.
I've become quite familiar
with your tenacity.
At the same time,
I also know that you are
a person who accepts reality
when it cannot be altered.
[shuddering]
I'm impressed.
I find that contradiction
to be most exquisite.
[groaning]
[gasps]
‐ [grunts]
‐ [Kirei groans]
[Lancer grunts]
[gagging]
But how did you...
[groans]
I hate to break it to you,
Kotomine...
But if a scratch like that
did me in,
I wouldn't be much
of a hero now, would I?
[groaning]
[grunts]
Dammit.
[grunting]
So this is how it all ends.
Pathetic.
[both whimpering]
[gasps]
‐ [Shinji laughs]
‐ [gasps]
[Shinji laughing maniacally]
What's with, "The Holy Grail
will be mine," bullshit?
You always were pretty useless,
weren't you?
Right, holy man?
[thuds]
[gasping]
But I"m okay with it.
I'm not complaining.
I'm not the kind of person
who holds a grudge.
Besides, I suppose
it's kinda lame
to complain to a dead man,
right?
But it's worse
to keep a lady waiting!
No more distractions.
We finally got a little privacy.
I worked so hard
to make this happen.
Can't have you dying
that easily.
I mean,
it wouldn't be fair!
Not after I've been so patient.
I'm so close to having
the Holy Grail,
I can taste it.
It isn't too late,
you know.
You can still agree
to be mine forever.
Just say yes
and you can have your share.
‐ [Rin] What an idiot.
‐ Huh?
[Rin] You still haven't
learned anything,
have you?
[scoffs]
Don't you get it?
It's not too late.
Not for you!
Get out of here,
you idiot!
You'll die if you stay,
so go!
[Shinji exhales]
‐ [grunting]
‐ [screams]
[gasps]
[breathing deeply]
[exhales sharply]
‐ [Shinji grunting]
‐ [gagging]
Come on, Tohsaka!
Grovel for me!
If I like what I hear,
then I might even let you live!
Damn, you're beyond saving,
aren't you?
Look, I'll warn you
one more time.
Run away while you still ca‐‐
[scoffs]
What in the hell are you even
talking about?
I don't see anyone here
who can stop me.
Do you?
[whimpers]
[shouts]
Douche bag.
Don't you ever touch her
with your friggin'
dirty hands again.
[groans]
The hell?
Shouldn't you be dying right now
instead of offering up opinions?
[breathing deeply]
Screw you!
I'll make sure your death
is a painful one.
[Shinji] You hear that,
Gilgamesh?
This guy says he wants
to die like a hero,
so help him out!
Hey, what's going on?
Why isn't he coming?
Aren't you listening?
Get your ass over here
and help me!
[gasps]
[whimpers]
[panicked screaming]
[Lancer] Dammit.
That kid made me waste
my energy.
[Rin] Thanks.
You saved my life.
Heh.
I figured I might as well.
No thanks necessary,
little lady...
[thuds]
[gasps]
Lancer!
[blows landing]
[both grunting]
[groans]
[grunting]
Dammit!
[Shirou grunting]
[grunts]
[both grunting]
[blows landing]
[grunts]
[both grunting]
[breathing heavily]
You thought your own projections
were on par with mine?
You might be able
to mimic the designs
and materials,
but they're worthless
if your configurations are poor.
[snarls]
Shut up!
[grunts]
[sparking]
[gasps]
[blow lands]
[Archer grunts]
[blows landing]
[both grunting]
[groaning]
[grunts]
[booming]
[Shirou screams]
[sparking]
[inhales sharply]
[grunts]
[gasps]
[Archer] Now I see why
you're so persistent.
I've heard of magecraft
that allows mastery
of old skills by evoking them
from a previous life
and letting them possess you.
Your skill keeps improving
every time you
and I cross swords and fight.
Is that what you think?
Guess that makes both
of us copycats.
You keep acting cool.
It'll give me more time
to catch up to you.
[Archer] Catch up to me?
You're an optimistic fool.
You have no idea
how wrong you are.
Explain it to me.
[grunts]
No matter how strong you get
or what skills you draw on,
you have no chance of winning.
[wincing]
[Shirou] So that's it?
That's how his life ended?
I don't pity him.
I don't pity him!
Still...
If this is really
the path I'm heading down...
My heart's gonna shatter.
Everything you believed in‐‐
what you still believe in‐‐
I see for myself now how all
of these are nothing
but a dream covered with lies.
[crashing]
[both grunting]
[grunts]
[gasping]
[Saber] Shirou!
Feeling ill?
Judging by the expression
on your face,
I'd guess you're about to vomit.
You saw it, didn't you?
[breathing heavily]
[Archer] That simplifies things.
Everything you saw is true,
Shirou Emiya.
That's what catching up
to me means.
See it again for yourself.
The world I ended up in.
I am the bone of my sword.
Unknown to death
nor known to life.
Unlimited blade works!
[shudders]
[coughs]
[gasps]
‐ [Lancer] Don't worry.
‐ [gasps]
I've gotten rather used
to this.
It's the fate of being a hero.
Sacrificing your life
to follow some stupid order.
Ah, well.
I guess we both ended up
with crappy partners, huh?
[Rin] You're right.
But mine wasn't crappy, exactly.
More like completely
unmanageable.
You're not kidding.
Most humans are a pain
in the ass on the best of days,
but that guy's really goin'
for the gold.
[Lancer] Too much for even you
to handle.
Yeah, but it made me try harder.
For as long as Archer acted
as my servant,
I swore I would only do
what I truly believed in,
despite the consequences.
[Rin] I hate to say it,
but I don't think
I can save him.
Because I think he's right.
His choices,
even his regrets,
they're all justified.
Makes me feel so callous
to think that way,
and that makes me angry
at myself.
That's why all I can really do
is pursue my own goals.
I need to keep fighting
for what I believe in
just like a certain someone
that we both know.
And besides,
what else can I do?
I've got to repay him.
And I can't think
of a better way to do it.
Ah, geez.
Things mighta been different
if I'd had the chance
to partner up
with a woman like you.
[Lancer] But I never did have
much luck finding good women.
Damn.
I guess that'll never change
no matter how many times I try.
[flames sizzling]
Well, you'd better get going.
I'll take him with me.
[grunts]
[Rin] Goodbye, Lancer.
I didn't know you very long,
but you make me wish
that I had.
Heh, silly girl.
Come find me again
when you're older.
[whooshes]
[Shirou breathing heavily]
A fool who knows his dreams
are unattainable
but comes anyway.
A fraud without a will
of his own who's wasted
his life on a ridiculous ideal.
Can you finally admit
that's who you truly are?
Saving people just because
you want to
is both selfish
and misguided.
[Archer] You're a defect
of humanity.
You should never have existed
in the first place!
There's no point
in a life like yours!
[grunts]
You know that I'm your ideal,
and you should know now
your dream never comes true.
[shudders]
[hissing]
[groans]
[screaming]
[blades clang]
I see.
I suppose it's only natural
for you to deny me...
As the ideal of Shirou Emiya.
I'm the only person
you can never bring yourself
to accept.
[groaning]
[blades clang]
[both grunt]
[gasping]
[grunting]
‐ [Shirou gasps]
‐ [Archer scoffs]
Now tell me.
Knowing what you know,
do you honestly want
to be a hero of justice?
[winces]
I've already told you that.
It isn't that I want
to become one.
It's that I will become one
no matter what!
[groaning]
You're right.
You must become one
no matter what.
You are Shirou Emiya,
and it's the only thing you've
ever been passionate about,
even though you know that
the heart of a hero
of justice simply isn't in you.
‐ [groaning]
‐ There, you see?
Your reaction tells me
that you've always suspected
it yourself.
[Archer] Memories
of my past faded long ago.
But there's still one sight
that stayed with me
all this time.
The flames
and the pervasive stench
of death,
wishing for help
when there was none,
what I felt when the wish
was granted,
but most of all,
I remember the look of relief
on Kiritsugu Emiya's face
when he saved me.
That is where your dream began.
It was some time before
you finally felt gratitude
for being saved.
You adored Kiritsugu Emiya.
That's all.
And because of him,
because you saw how happy
he was when he saved you,
you began to think you
could have the same thing.
[Shirou] He's right.
It wasn't me who
was saved that day.
A massive blaze
that left no survivors,
a child who should
have been beyond saving,
and the man
who stumbled across him.
To tell the truth,
I don't know which one
was the real miracle.
Children will often idolize
their parents.
But when he died,
a curse was your inheritance.
[Archer] At that moment,
that man left you no choice
but to become a hero.
The ideals you cling to
are second‐hand.
Ideals Kiritsugu Emiya failed
to live up to.
In the end,
all you're doing is imitating
what he believed was right.
You're wrong.
[Archer] Hero of justice?
Don't make me laugh.
Just because
the idea consumes you,
it doesn't mean helping others
is something you truly want.
It's nothing but
a borrowed dream.
Someone like you thinking you
can be a force for good?
It is the height of hubris!
[glass shattering]
[screams]
[groaning]
That's right!
You couldn't help but admire
the beauty
in your father's dream
of helping others!
That's why you never developed
any real passions
of your own!
If that isn't hypocrisy,
then what is?
[Archer] You're driven
by this ridiculous obsession
with sacrificing yourself
for the sake of others,
blind to your own arrogance!
[blow lands]
[Shirou groans]
No!
[Archer] But in the end,
you're a fraud,
and your hypocrisy
can't save anyone!
How could you when
you never knew
who you should save
to begin with?
And look.
This is the result.
You could never be a savior.
You never had anything to save!
You became the embodiment
of justice,
and justice can be cruel!
[grunts]
[Archer] Your ideals
are falling apart.
Maybe other people aren't
more important than you are.
It's dawning on you that a world
where everyone is happy
is just a fairy tale,
and if you can't live without
that dream,
let it drag you down
and drown you!
[whimpering]
[Shirou] It's true.
What he said was mostly right.
But I couldn't
help thinking there
was something he missed.
[flies buzzing]
I saw hell.
I saw the hell that
would someday be mine.
You were right.
At least,
I think you were.
[Archer]
But I didn't live wisely.
[exhales sharply]
It seems to me like you've lost
a lot of things.
[Archer] You've got
it all wrong.
I'm here because I tried not
to lose anything.
And I didn't.
Not one thing.
No,
come to think of it,
there is one thing.
Something I forgot.
[Shirou] I saw the hell that led
to all the others.
[Shirou whimpering]
Hey!
You know that's hell
you're walkin' into?
[groaning]
[crying]
What was the point of you‐‐
no,
of me surviving that hell?
Why were we spared?
[crying]
[rain pattering]
[Aimer's "Last Stardust"]
♪♪ ♪♪
‐ [grunts]
‐ [Archer] Hey.
[grunts]
You know that's hell
you're walking into?
[Aimer singing in Japanese]
This is the one thing
you'd forgotten.
At first it was just admiration,
but it was admiration built
on a dream.
[Shirou] The dream
that this hell could be undone.
The unfulfilled dream
of a man who wasn't capable
of helping anyone
no matter how hard he tried,
and it cost him everything.
[Aimer singing in Japanese]
♪♪ ♪♪
[Archer] Is that
the life you want?
A hollow life of a machine?
[Shirou] Yeah.
I do.
Even if it's a life dripping
with hypocrisy.
I'll try to be the hero
of justice the world needs.
♪♪ ♪♪
[gasps]
I see.
[Archer] Her scabbard.
♪♪ ♪♪
The link to Saber
that Kiritsugu implanted in us.
To save our life.
Not an ancient relic
or something that had
to be summoned.
Though the pact is severed,
its protection still remains.
‐ I am...
‐ You wouldn't!
[Shirou] The bone of my sword.
[grunting]
[Aimer singing in Japanese]
[Shirou] I can't lose.
Not to you!
♪♪ ♪♪
[gasps]
[Shirou] I'm not afraid
of losing.
But there's no way
I'm gonna lose to myself!
♪♪ ♪♪
You're finally standing
on the threshold.
But what good will it do you?
I'm certain you've noticed
by now.
Your skill and mine
are worlds apart.
My belief may
have been defeated,
but my arms and legs still work.
I honestly believed you
were right,
but now I know that isn't true.
What?
I see that being right
is the only thing
you actually care about.
Well, none of that matters
to me.
I'll become a hero of justice.
And just
as you can't accept me...
I'll use every ounce
of my strength
to defeat the part
of me that's you!
[Kalafina's "Ring Your Bell"]
♪♪ ♪♪
[Kalafina singing in Japanese]
♪♪ Ring your bell ♪♪